Okay, cool so yeah,
let's go through this exercise together.
So we've got this number that just
kind of keeps counting up higher and
higher and higher,
I'm gonna go ahead and open 3.html.
And so I just kind of made some, for
those that are JavaScript developers.
I just did like a kind of random number
here and then made a set timeout.
So that random number of intervals,
we just like grab the counter value and
increase it by one, so
it just has a little bit of dynamicism.
So I think at its simplest case we If we
could find the container of the number
itself, and then we could just
add an aria live region to it.
And so again, we can do assertive or
polite, so for an example,
if we go ahead and do assertive and then I
come back over to this page and reload it.
And then I go ahead and
I turn the screen reader on,
we'll kind of be able to see that as
the numbers are coming in in real time.
We can see the screen reader like
kind of keeps interrupting and
updating those numbers basically.
So that if we go ahead and we change this
to polite and refresh the page again.
We can see that even when
I'm on the page here,
it's gonna wait until that whole
thing reads out in the bottom left.
And only when that's done,
we'll update from old numbers, so
you can actually see that for
a while while had other stuff to do.
Then the count was kinda behind like right
now it's time you're currently on a link.
So the constant be behind and
then eventually as the screen reader idles
for a long time, it'll catch back up.
And so again,
you can kinda like play with those,
I often just am like if it's the most
important thing that the application
is gonna do, I go with assertive.
Otherwise I just go with polite and let
users kind of get an update as they go.
But, it can be really nice because I think
often we use visual only clues that things
have changed like a red notification or
something like that.
So it's really nice to have
an easy ability to just
let user know that something
dynamic is updated.
Any questions on the exercise?
>> Like I was trying to
apply this label and
I found that it's updating
like every single number.
>> Aha,
>> Even using polite, so
if you wanted some code that
said only read out an update.
After every 10 likes or every 10 seconds,
whatever comes first
that's just JavaScript.
>> Exactly, yeah so with aria live
there's no more fine-grain control.
I think that actually be really nice
APIs like some way of being like
no more than X, but yeah for
sure if you wanted to do something.
So again for the audience the question is,
it's reading out every single number
even on polite cuz it's idling.
Is there any way to get it to like
read out only when you get like 10 or
only when it's been like 10 seconds
since the last one or whatever.
Yes, but
it would just be like pure JavaScript, so
maybe in that timeout it would
just be like, yeah exactly.
I'm trying to think of a way to do it like
one way you could have like a hidden div
with aria live on it.
And you can only update that content on
a certain time or something like that.
Or when a number was hit, but yeah for
sure you just have to code that yourself.
Great question, so
what element gets the aria live region,
like would you put it at the top bottom,
wherever?
So the thing is, is that the aria
live will announce whenever any
content in the element changes.
So you kind of wanna scope it down to just
the element that you want read aloud so
like notification count or
something like that.
Otherwise, like if you were trying
to update notifications on Facebook
dot com and you had it on the body tag or
a top level tag.
Anytime you like open a modal or
typed anything,
anytime the DOM changes it
wouldn't announce that stuff.
So, you kind of wanna scope
it as small as possible.
Even sometimes just wrapping
a certain value in a span, just so
you can aria live just that span,
that kind of thing.